# Setup Schematic


# Step 1. Initial Device Setup

## Connect to the device

First, if the device is fresh out of the box, management interface must be setup for ssh. It either needs DHCP, or manual static ip. Below setting up a static ip is explained.

### Setting Up Management Interface

To check if the device is recognized by UHD, run one of the following commands

    UHD_IMAGES_DIR=/usr/share/uhd/images/ uhd_find_devices
    UHD_IMAGES_DIR=/usr/share/uhd/images/ /usr/local/bin/uhd_find_devices
    
If the device is not showing up, check the network interfaces and bring them up, or just simply turn on the radios LoL.



Connect to the device over USB

    ls /dev/serial/by-id
    
Every E320 series device connected to USB will by default show up as four different devices. The devices labeled `USB_to_UART_Bridge_Controller` are the devices that offer a serial prompt. The first (with the `if00` suffix) connects to the STM32 Microcontroller, whereas the second connects to the ARM CPU.
    
    sudo screen  /dev/serial/by-id/usb-Silicon_Labs_CP2105_Dual_USB_to_UART_Bridge_Controller_011C1095-if01-port0 115200

Enter `root` for the login and empty password.

To setup the radio network interfaces, edit these files:

    vim /etc/systemd/network/eth0.network
    vim /etc/systemd/network/sfp0.network
    
NOTE: Care needs to be taken when editing these files on the device, since `vi` / `vim` sometimes generates undo files (e.g. `/data/network/sfp0.network~`), that systemd-networkd might accidentally pick up.
    
For example, for the development devices, we set the `eth0` interface ip to:

    [Network]
    Address=192.168.2.3/16
    Gateway=192.168.0.1 

In the end, make sure the devices respond to ping and use ssh

    ssh root@192.168.2.3
    uhd_usrp_probe

For some reason, uhd commands do not work over screen and USB. Run them and confirm the UHD version matches the UHD version of the radio host.

## Start CHDR interface

Ettus calls the workload interface of the radios *CHDR*. This is the SFP interface for transferring the data samples and not management purposes. This interface could be setup over ssh as mentioned above, or using Ansible from the radio host.

        ansible-playbook -i 192.168.2.3, e320_if_up.yml --extra-vars "ip=192.168.20.3/24 mtu_bytes=1500"
        ansible-playbook -i 192.168.2.4, e320_if_up.yml --extra-vars "ip=192.168.20.4/24 mtu_bytes=1500"
        
## Update FPGA

This must be done from the corresponding radio host.

        sudo UHD_IMAGES_DIR=/usr/share/uhd/images/ /usr/local/bin/uhd_images_downloader -t e320 -t fpga
        sudo UHD_IMAGES_DIR=/usr/share/uhd/images/ /usr/local/bin/uhd_image_loader --args "type=e3xx,mgmt_addr=192.168.2.4,fpga=1G"


## Probe the Device

Note that for probing the device, only do it from its corresponding host and using the streaming interface.

        sudo UHD_IMAGES_DIR=/usr/share/uhd/images/ /usr/local/bin/uhd_usrp_probe --args "addr=192.168.20.3"


Useful commands:

        uhd_config_info --print-all


# Step 2. Modify Openairinterface to work with E320

### Modify the USRP interface code

Clone the repo and checkout the latest release:
        
        git clone https://gitlab.eurecom.fr/oai/openairinterface5g.git
        cd openairinterface5g
        git fetch --tags
        git checkout tags/2022.w13

Modify the file `targets/ARCH/USRP/USERSPACE/LIB/usrp_lib.cpp:1014` as follows:

        if (device_adds[0].get("type") == "b200")

Change to

        if (device_adds[0].get("type") == "b200" || device_adds[0].get("type") == "e3xx")
        
Since E320 and B210 share the same RF chip, essentially all configurations are the same. Only difference is that E320 is capable of 10Gb network connection.

### Re-compile Openairinterface

Choose 3.15.0.0 or any version that matches the uhd driver on the E320

        cd ~/openairinterface/cmake_targets
        UHD_VERSION=3.15.0.0 BUILD_UHD_FROM_SOURCE=1 ./build_oai -I -w USRP --UE

`-I` install external packages.
`-C` clean all compiled objects.
`-c` clean compiled objects.

### Run

Make sure to use `--usrp-args "addr=192.168.20.4"` with the sfp interface address.

        sudo -E cmake_targets/ran_build/build/lte-uesoftmodem --usrp-args "addr=192.168.20.4" -C 2680000000 -r 25 --ue-rxgain 120 --ue-txgain 0 --ue-max-power 0 --ue-scan-carrier --nokrnmod 1


# Step 3. Build Container Images

On a clean and fresh repo, with no previous build files run:

        docker build --target ran-base --tag ran-base:latest --file docker/Dockerfile.base.ubuntu18 .
        docker build --target ran-build --tag ran-build:latest --file docker/Dockerfile.build.ubuntu18 .

The result shoud look like

        docker image ls
        REPOSITORY          TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
        ran-build           latest              f2633a7f5102        1 minute ago        6.81GB
        ran-base            latest              5c9c02a5b4a8        1 minute ago        2.4GB

Now build any target image for LTE RAN

        docker build --target oai-enb --tag oai-enb:latest --file docker/Dockerfile.eNB.ubuntu18 .
        docker build --target oai-lte-ue --tag oai-lte-ue:latest --file docker/Dockerfile.lteUE.ubuntu18 .
        
Or NR RAN
        
        docker build --target oai-gnb --tag oai-gnb:latest --file docker/Dockerfile.gNB.ubuntu18 .
        docker build --target oai-nr-ue --tag oai-nr-ue:latest --file docker/Dockerfile.nrUE.ubuntu18 .
        
Do not forget to remove the temporary image:

        docker image prune --force

We follow the instructions here: 

        https://gitlab.eurecom.fr/oai/openairinterface5g/-/tree/develop/docker#3-building-using-docker-under-ubuntu-1804
